 
 How To Apply – Interns – ASPRS 
 Skip to content 
 Menu 
 Get Involved 
 About The Society 
 Divisions 
 GIS Division Information 
 Lidar Division 
 Photogrammetric Applications Division 
 Primary Data Acquisition Division 
 Professional Practice Division 
 Remote Sensing Applications Division 
 UAS Division 
 Regions 
 Committees 
 Councils 
 Sustaining Members Council 
 Student Advisory Council 
 Early Career Professionals Council – ECPC 
 Region Officers Council 
 Technical Division Directors 
 Membership 
 Member Benefits 
 Find Certified Professionals 
 Member Directory 
 Member Portal 
 Communities 
 Certification 
 ASPRS Certification Program 
 Publications 
 Bookstore 
 PE&RS Journals 
 Manual of Photogrammetry Errata 
 Conference Proceedings 
 ASPRS Examination Copies 
 Other Publications 
 Education / Careers 
 Student Mentoring Program 
 ASPRS Awards and Scholarships 
 Students 
 Career Brochure 
 On-Demand Workshops 
 GeoBytes Webinars 
 GeoBits Webinars for Kids 
 Other Career, Job, and Education Resources 
 Mentorship – Early Career Professionals Council – ECPC 
 Rising Star Program 
 Events 
 ASPRS 2023 Annual Conference 
 Event Calendar 
 News & Resources 
 News & Resources Latest Posts 
 Press Releases 
 ASPRS Films 
 Report Card on the US National Spatial Data Infrastructure 
 Standards 
 10 Year Industry Forecast 
 Society Info 
 What is ASPRS? 
 About ASPRS 
 Our Members 
 Sustaining Members 
 ASPRS Awards and Scholarships 
 ASPRS Foundation 
 ASPRS Governance 
 Board Officers 
 Past Presidents 
 ASPRS Fellows 
 ISPRS 
 Friends of ASPRS 
 ASPRS Community 
 login 
 join 
 donate 
 get involved 
 How To Apply – Interns 
 GEOSPATIAL INTERN PROGRAM 
 An applicant seeking Geospatial Intern recognition must be an active student preparing to graduate in a degree program with educational training in the spatial sciences from an approved institution of higher education and must follow the Basic Requirements as previously outlined for Certified Photogrammetrist Mapping Scientist or Technologist; the exception being the required on-job experience. 
 Applicants must submit the appropriate Application and Fee with one (1) reference from their academic advisor or relevant faculty member. An Official Copy of the applicant’s current transcript must accompany the application; the transcript must validate that the applicant has successfully completed a minimum of two (2) courses in the spatial sciences (photogrammetry remote sensing or GIS/LIS). The application requires a declaration of compliance with the ASPRS Code of Ethics. 
 Applications fees and the reference will be submitted to ASPRS Headquarters for consideration by the appropriate peer review committee. Applicants will be notified following peer review and individuals passing peer review will be given the opportunity to take the appropriate examination within six (6) months following their notification date. Examinations will be administered in a proctor-controlled environment. 
 Upon successful examination completion the individual will receive Intern-level recognition as one of the following: 
 Photogrammetrist Intern 
 Remote Sensing Mapping Scientist Intern 
 GIS/LIS Mapping Scientist Intern 
 Photogrammetric Technologist Intern 
 Remote Sensing Technologist Intern 
 GIS/LIS Technologist Intern 
 In the case of Photogrammetrist or Mapping Scientist the individual will have ten (10) years from the date of examination to complete the six (6) year experience requirement. In the case of Technologist the individual will have five (5) years to complete the three (3) year experience requirement. Exceptions to the length of time for completion of the experience requirement will only be granted for active duty military service. 
 When the Work Experience requirement is complete the Applicant must provide written documentation and three (3) references to ASPRS Headquarters who will forward the experience summary and references to the Evaluation for Certification Committee. Applicants meeting all of these requirements will become certified for the specified time period of their certification. 
 Step 1: 
 Read carefully the section entitled “ Classification Chart for Photogrammetry and Mapping Sciences. “ 
 Step 2: 
 Determine separately the number of years of actual job experience attained in functions that are classified as being at the professional level and in functions at the technician level. 
 Step 3: 
 Read the preceding sections (“Basic Requirements” and “Educational Credit”); ascertain that actual work experience with or without educational credit meets conditions listed under “Basic Requirements.” 
 Step 4: 
 If applying for initial certification download an application for Certified Photogrammetrist/Mapping Scientist OR Certified Technologist and reference forms or contact ASPRS Headquarters: send an email to certification@asprs.org or call (301) 493-0290 ext 101 or fax your request to (301) 493-0208. 
 Step 5: 
 If applying for recertification read carefully the Section on “ Recertification Criteria ” and be sure to complete the Application for Recertification and the reference forms . NOTE: When describing experience applicants are advised to be complete. The Evaluation Committee evaluates the application data and does not assume data not presented) 
 Step 6: 
 Provide names and addresses of at least four persons to whom you have sent a copy of the Confidential Reference Form . Fill out the Confidential Reference Forms with the person’s name and complete address on the top left side and forward to the respective references. Request said references to supply from their own personal knowledge facts with reference to your character and information concerning your professional qualifications and to mail the completed reference form with their name address and any accompanying letters to the Society. (Please note: Provisional Certification applications are subject to modified requirements.) (NOTE: References are often the source of delays in the evaluation process. The process cannot start until the references have all been received.) 
 Step 7: 
 Return your completed application form ( Provisional OR Full ) to the American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing together with the application fee indicated below. Make checks payable to the American Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing and mail to: 
 ASPRS Certification Program 
425 Barlow Place, Suite 210, 
Bethesda MD 20814-2160 
 ASPRS Certification Application Fees 
 Type of Application 
 ASPRS Members 
 Non-Members 
 Initial Certification 
 $275 (US) 
 $400 (US) 
 Provisional Certification 
 Initial Application 
 Final Application 
 $150 (US) 
$150 (US) 
 $200 (US) 
$300 (US) 
 Recertification 
 $150 (US) 
 $275 (US) 
 Initial Certification Technologist 
 $150(US) 
 $275(US) 
 Recertification Technologist 
 $100(US) 
 $150(US) 
 (NOTE: The fees charged defray administrative costs of the Certification Program. Fees are not refundable in the event of non-certification.) 
 Step 8: 
 Be prepared to furnish additional background information if requested by the Evaluation Committee. 
 Step 9: 
 Upon notification of approval by the Evaluation Committee you must take a written examination within six months of approval. 
 PREPARING for the EXAMINATION 
 Matrices illustrating the mix of examination questions by specialty area have been prepared for applicant review. Please note that workshops on preparation for certification are also offered during most ASPRS Conferences and online via webinar. Consult the ASPRS Conferences or Webinars calendars for upcoming workshops. 
 The purpose of the workshop is to prepare individuals who are planning to sit for the ASPRS Certification exams. The workshop begins by explaining the purpose and form of the exam. Key topical areas are identified which an applicant should be aware of prior to taking the exam. Basic concepts and sample questions are reviewed to show how these topics will be tested on the exam. Finally the workshop identifies resources which examinees should be aware of to utilize in their preparation for the examination. 
 Workshop Topics: 
 Purpose of the exam 
 Photogrammetry 
 Remote Sensing 
 Geographic Information Systems 
 Other topical areas of importance in preparation for the exam 
 Suggested Texts for Review: 
 The Manual of Photogrammetry 5th edition 2005. 
 Remote Sensing and Image Interpretation 4th edition Lillesand and Kiefer 2000. 
 Elements of Photogrammetry: With Applications in GIS Wolf and Dewitt 1999. 
 Glossary of the Mapping Sciences 1994. 
 Fundamentals of Remote Sensing and Airphoto Interpretation 5th edition Avery & Berlin 1992. 
 Many texts on engineering surveying that can be excellent review material. 
 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES 
 The structure for administering the ASPRS Certification Program consists of two major elements: 
 The Evaluation for Certification Committee which reviews then approves or rejects all applications for Certification Recertification or Provisional Certification 
 The Professional Conduct Committee which investigates allegations and complaints involving practicing photogrammetrists mapping scientists and technologists and recommends appropriate action to the Board of Directors. 
 The Society’s Professional Practice Division monitors and develops policy guidelines for the program. The Board of Directors is the final authority on matters involving certification and professional conduct. 
 Applications for Certification and Recertification will upon receipt at ASPRS Headquarters be reviewed for completeness. When the required references have submitted Confidential Reference Forms they are combined with the application. Applications found to be in order are sent to the Chair of the Evaluation Committee whose membership includes representation from each major functional area of photogrammetry and the mapping sciences. The Committee will meet as required to take action on all bona fide applications. 
 Applicants for certification recertification and provisional certification will be notified of action by the Committee as soon as possible. 
 AWARD OF GEOSPATIAL INTERN STATUS 
 Successful applicants will be awarded an engrossed certificate. Geospatial Interns may display the certificate and use the following designations on business stationary and cards: 
 Geospatial Intern (ASPRS) 
 RESERVATIONS 
 The Society reserves the right to change or amend the requirements for certification and recertification the educational credits or the administrative fee structure for review and evaluation if and when deemed appropriate by the Board of Directors. 
 The Society further reserves the right to revoke a certification or recertification if in the opinion of the Board of Directors the person concerned has violated or shown flagrant disregard for the Code of Ethics of the Society. 
 Since the program is entirely voluntary the Society assumes no responsibility for any loss or disadvantage real or imagined which may be alleged to have resulted from a disapproval of an application for certification recertification or revocation of the certificate once given. 
 By submitting their application the applicant acknowledges that the Society will apply the internal standards adopted by its Board of Directors in evaluating the applicant and that it may reject any applicant who does not meet its minimum standards for certification or recertification. In consideration of ASPRS acceptance and processing of an application the applicant agrees to waive any and all claims of liability or responsibility against ASPRS and to indemnify and hold harmless ASPRS its directors officers committee members employees agents and representatives against any and all such injury damages or claims made by or on behalf of any person partnership association or corporation. Applicant further acknowledges that ASPRS its directors officers committee members employees agents or representatives are not liable to the applicant or to any other person partnership association or corporation in any way for any injury damages or claims alleged to be based upon or arising out of the approval or disapproval or the issuance withdrawal or termination of any certification or recertification issued by ASPRS. 
 Login to My ASPRS 
 Having Trouble Logging In? 
 After you log in or out, you may need to click the Continue/Refresh button. 
 Advertise with ASPRS Follow ASPRS on Twitter 
 Tweets by @asprsorg 
 Contact Us 
 Name Email * 
 Message * CAPTCHA 
 ASPRS > ASPRS Certification Program > How To Apply – Interns 
 About Us Address : 8550 United Plaza Blvd, Suite 1001, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70809 
 Mailing Address : PO Box 14713 Baton Rouge, 
LA 70898 
 Tel +1 (301) 493-0290 
 Search for: 
 Copyright 2018, ASPRS 
 design by aGenius 
 